# side projects pages

# cv

# photography

# publications

https://apkpure.com/zombie-mash/com.bigfive.zombiemash.android
https://apkpure.com/trendhouse/com.murtaghtechnology.trendhouse

Hi Editors,
I'm a big fan of Silicon Republic, I regularly check in to get a sense of what's happening in the Irish tech scene. You have covered Akara Robotics, Conor McGinn and Niamh Donnelly several times now and I want to share with you what your coverage of them has meant for me personally.
I came across your most recent coverage of them in the article about the startups that went through the Intel Edge AI accelerator and noticed that 'all' the co-founders were mentioned by name - but not mine. I was a founding member of the team (before the first Stevie prototype was built) and I, as well as other members of the team, put enormous amounts of our lives into the project; but we never received public recognition for the work we did. This is the first time I have seen a media outlet mention anyone on the team other than Conor or Niamh. They have received the vast majority of public recognition for the work done at Akara and I want you to know I feel this has been very unfair for the rest of the team and has had a terrible effect on me. 
Stevie was primarily built by me (software), Eamonn (mechanical) and Cian (electronics). Niamh joined about 18 months after the project began and after Stevie was developed, she had very little input on the creation of Stevie 2 when compared to us. It is hard for people to believe, but Conor had little input on the technical work on Stevie either. In fairness, as a mechanical engineer, he did have some input on that aspect of the build; but he has a limited understanding of software development and has little to no understanding of the software on Stevie. The extent of his input on software would be to say "Stevie needs to play bingo", it was then up to me to take it from there and write the software, Conor would check back in to see how it was going. I spent many long days and nights figuring out how to write about 95% of the software on Stevie myself (including much of the AI Niamh was credited for in an earlier Silicon Republic article). The programs allowing Stevie to talk, play bingo, navigate, tell stories, have facial expressions, move his joints, etc. etc. are ones I wrote myself without the input of Niamh and very little input from Conor. In fact, Conor has decided not to disclose any of the software I wrote for Stevie to Trinity as part of the spin-out process, meaning that Akara can use it without paying Trinity, or me, a licensing fee or attributing me as a co-inventor. 
Many of the mechanical design decisions (the shape, aesthetic, colours, materials, etc.) were made by Eamonn. Effectively all of the software decisions were made by me and the same is true of the electronics for Cian. It has been very dispiriting to see someone give him an award or write a glowing article about him (or Niamh) and to later have them come to me with basic questions about how Stevie operates, or ask if it is possible for Stevie to do something. At the beginning, I put my trust in Conor that he would credit the full team for their work, it never even occurred to me that they would be happy to accept the credit and take very few steps to ensure the rest of the team were fairly attributed.
It has been extremely demoralising for me that after giving so much to the project - working for free for seven months, working very long hours figuring out difficult technical problems without any help, falling out of touch with some of my friends because of the hours I put in, accepting less pay than the others on the team, and even giving up funding that was awarded to me from Enterprise Ireland for my own startup - to watch them receive all the recognition while Eamonn, Cian and I were considered as aides or assistants to him. This was compounded further by the fact that Conor repeatedly told us we were vital to the company, that it wouldn't exist without us, that what he valued most was loyalty, etc, etc. The disparity between what he was telling us and what was happening was difficult to reconcile.
The fair attribution of recognition is one of the many other examples of the toxic culture that can exist in Akara. Another example is that he told Eamonn and I that we would be getting equity in Akara in the region of 10-15% before the project began, he deflected talking about it seriously until after Stevie was built, once we talked about it we agreed on a figure of 17% (I still own 50% of the company actually). He then got advice from Trinity that we shouldn't get any equity and took 70-80% of the company leaving us with a few options. One of the reasons he justified the decision to me was because he thought investors would think: "who's this Andrew guy, and he's got a girlfriend over in Germany? How do we know he won't leave" - he used my personal relationship status to justify making a business decision to cut my equity down. 
After putting so much of my life into the project, having your "co-founder" say that to you was a real blow to my sense of self-worth. It was made worse by the fact that he hired his girlfriend (Niamh), made her a co-founder a year after we started working on it, gave her a sizable amount of equity, carved off half of what my department was supposed to be and gave it to her without mentioning it to me, and publicly promoted her as the inventor of the AI on Stevie.
There are many, many more examples of the toxicity in the team and I know of many people who won't work with him again. He has lost two early employees and two co-founders because of his treatment of others. While some aspects of working on the project were fantastic, it has also been very detrimental to my confidence and self-esteem. It has severally impacted on my own sense of self-worth and has resulted in me experiencing bouts of depression.
Again, I'm not asking you to change anything about how you cover them or blaming Silicon Republic for anything that happened there. There isn't an agenda to this email. I just thought that since you cover the Irish tech scene and have covered them before you'd be interested in hearing that not all is how it appears on the Akara team. This is off the record and confidential.
All the best,Andrew


---


I get the sense the editors of Silicon Republic think Akara is a great story to cover but if you are going to continue to hold them up as leading lights in the Irish tech scene you should be aware of the full story there. 
Conor promised me and Eamonn 10-15% of the company before we started working on it, after we built Stevie we got around to talking about it and we initially agreed we'd get around 17%. He changed his mind because people from Trinity told him not to give us any equity and took about 70-80% of the company for himself, and we got a few percent in options. The funny thing is that I still own 50% of the company on paper, it can be checked on the CRO. We eventually scraped back some equity after months since he realised what a detrimental affect it had on us. It was inexperience on his behalf which I can forgive, but what upset me was that he justified the decision by saying "investors would have questions over my long-distance relationship, that they would be scared I'd run off to be with my girlfriend". Meanwhile, he hired his girlfriend (Niamh) and has a lot of nepotism towards her. He made her a co-founder a year after we started the company, cleaved off half of what he told me my department would be and gave to her without mentioning it to me, and then proceeding to promote her as the creator and director of much of the software I wrote.
I, along with another former co-founder (the founder of Blueface which recently sold to Comcast), have already left the company because of disagreements with Conor.  Our funding ran out at December and Conor made little to no effort to seriously pursue funding to pay our salaries. He expected us to work for free while he is comfortably on 50k from his Professorship role - which he is seriously neglecting. I know PhD students, good friends of mine, who have been brought to the edge of tears because of how terribly Conor has treated them as their supervisor.   
This is a pattern that Conor has been doing for years. He manipulated young students into doing the majority of the technical work for his PhD promising them that he would "give them 3 hours back for every hour they gave him" (and never did), he has lied in an academic paper (it wasn't accepted for publication), he has often lied about the capabilities of Stevie to reporters and potential stakeholders, he coerced research assistants into teaching his module for weeks at a time while he was traveling on Akara business, he is being sued, he has promised to pay several people for work and reneged on it. I know of a PhD student who worked for Conor for a year on the basis that Conor would apply for funding to keep him on and he neglected to put in the funding application on time because he forgot (the Phd student lost a year of his life because of that mistake). I know many people who will never work with him again. Akara has a shiny exterior but can have a very toxic culture.
Again, I'm not making any requests to alter your coverage of them. But I feel you should be made aware of the full situation. Seeing someone who is manipulative, narcissistic, has low-empathy for people around him, and exploits and subdues his subordinates being held up as a beacon for what the tech community should represent is not what I believe the community should be about. And being one of those subordinates and watching him take credit for our work has had a terrible effect on me. Working with him has made me question my own self-worth and damaged the trust I put in people. 
